README.md, before:

# Dynamic Behaviors Generation in RoboCup SPL using LTL rules

## Installation

### Supported distros:
* Ubuntu 16.04/16.10/17.04/17.10/18.04/18.10/19.04/19.10/20.04
* Linux Mint 18.x / 20.x

### Install needed libraries
Open a terminal `Ctrl`+`Alt`+`t` (usually) and type the followings commands: <br>
```
sudo apt install build-essential cmake clang make qtbase5-dev libqt5opengl5-dev libqt5svg5-dev libglew-dev net-tools graphviz xterm qt5-default libvtk6-dev zlib1g-dev libjpeg-dev libwebp-dev libpng-dev libtiff5-dev libopenexr-dev libgdal-dev libtbb-dev libpng16-16:i386 libtbb2:i386 libjpeg62:i386 libtiff5:i386 libv4l-0:i386
```
<br>

### Configure GitHub :
  
  Install git
  ```
  sudo apt-get install git git-core git-gui git-doc gitg
  ```
  
  Follow [this guide](http://help.github.com/linux-set-up-git) to set up git (Attention: "Your Name here" means "Name Surname")

  Colorize git: 
  ```
  git config --global color.status auto
  ```
<br>


### Update and upgrade your pc and reboot.
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo reboot
```
<br>

### Install the SPQR Team RoboCup framework:
Clone the repository (need to have permissions on GitHub) 
```
mkdir RoboCup
cd RoboCup
git clone https://github.com/SPQRTeam/spqrnao2021.git
```


### Install OpenCV3.1
Dowload source of OpenCV:
 `$ wget https://github.com/opencv/opencv/archive/3.1.0.zip`

Unzip the files
 `$ unzip 3.1.0.zip`

Generate the make file
```
cd opencv-3.1.0
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DWITH_QT=ON -DWITH_OPENGL=ON -DFORCE_VTK=ON -DWITH_TBB=ON -DWITH_GDAL=ON -DWITH_XINE=ON -DWITH_CUDA=OFF ..
```

**NOTICE**: if you have trouble with _stdlib_ add this flag
```
-DENABLE_PRECOMPILED_HEADERS=OFF
```

Compile
```
make -j<num of cores of your cpu>
```

Run OpenCV install script 
```
sudo make install
``` 
and then
```
sudo ldconfig
```

#### Possible problems at this step

The following errors may happen for some users, but not others. *If you incur into one, please report it to us as soon as possible, so we can update this wiki with the proper error message.*

* **IMPORTANT FOR ANACONDA/MINICONDA USERS:** Either of them can mess with the installation process by generating seemingly unrelated errors *(e.g. an undefined reference to libtiff)*. The easiest way is to temporarily disable them by following this procedure: [(source)](https://github.com/colmap/colmap/issues/188#issuecomment-440665679)
  - Open your .bashrc: `$ nano ~/.bashrc`
  - Locate the line that adds <ana/mini>conda to your PATH. It may look like `export PATH="/home/<user>/anaconda3/bin:$PATH` for anaconda, and similarly for miniconda. If you can't find it in .bashrc, try your .profile as well.
  - Comment out that line *(add a `#` as the first character of that line)*.
  - *Open a new terminal window* and carry out the OpenCV installation procedure as above.
  - Un-comment that line in your .bashrc
* **If you get an error message related to ffmpeg:** Install ffmpeg with the command `sudo apt install ffmpeg`
* **If the compiler says some flag (one of which may be CODEC_FLAG_GLOBAL_HEADER) was not declared:** You may have to add the missing defines to the OpenCV code. Open the file `<opencv folder>/modules/videoio/src/cap_ffmpeg_impl.hpp` and add the folowing lines: [(source)](https://stackoverflow.com/a/47005401)
```c++
    #define AV_CODEC_FLAG_GLOBAL_HEADER (1 << 22)
    #define CODEC_FLAG_GLOBAL_HEADER AV_CODEC_FLAG_GLOBAL_HEADER
    #define AVFMT_RAWPICTURE 0x0020
```
* **If you get errors related to libasound:** Install the corresponding headers with the command `sudo apt install libasound2-dev`

### Compile the code 
#### Ubuntu 16 or Mint 18 users
Set Clang-6.0 before you compile: 
```
sudo apt-get install -y clang-6.0 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang++ clang++ /usr/bin/clang++-3.8 100 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang++ clang++ /usr/bin/clang++-6.0 1000 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang++ clang /usr/bin/clang-3.8 100 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang clang /usr/bin/clang-3.8 100 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang clang /usr/bin/clang-6.0 1000 
sudo update-alternatives --config clang 
sudo update-alternatives --config clang++
```
#### All users
To compile **(for all OS versions)**:
Compile the code (move to the `Make/Linux` folder of the repo)
```
cd RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/Make/Linux
make CONFIG=<Develop/Debug/Release>
```

### Install Python dependencies
Install the ssl library:
```
sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
```

Using a python package manager install the `twisted` package and the `service_identity` package (e.g. `pip install twisted service_identity`)

### Install NodeJS dependencies
* Install NodeJS
* Using npm install the `websocket` package (e.g. `npm install websocket`)

## Running

The network infrastructure is set to run on localhost. Make sure you're connected to a network anyway, even if not connected to the internet (to have the loopback work anyway)

### Run SimRobot
Move to `Develop/` folder
```
cd RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/Build/Linux/SimRobot/<Develop/Debug/Release>/
```

Run SimRobot
```
./SimRobot
```

Click on File->Open and then move to the `RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/Config/Scenes` folder and open the `1vs3Dummies.ros2` scene. This scene features one playing robot and 3 draggable inactive robots acting as obstacles.

### Run the python server
Move to `external_clients/` folder
```
cd RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/external_clients/
```

Run the python server 
```
python async_socket_NAO.py
```

### Run the NodeJS server
Move to `external_clients/web_interface` folder
```
cd RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/external_clients/web_interface
```

Run the python server
```
node clientUDP.js
```

### Open the GUI in the browser
Open any browser and connect to 127.0.0.1:3000

Commit message:

Added DFA library (ActionRegistry, LiteralRegistry, ValueRegistry, DFA class and LTLRule class), started turning existing code into a Manager-Managed structure

README.md, after:

# Dynamic Behaviors Generation in RoboCup SPL using LTL rules

## Installation

### Supported distros:
* Ubuntu 16.04/16.10/17.04/17.10/18.04/18.10/19.04/19.10/20.04
* Linux Mint 18.x / 20.x

### Install needed libraries
Open a terminal `Ctrl`+`Alt`+`t` (usually) and type the followings commands: <br>
```
sudo apt install build-essential cmake clang make qtbase5-dev libqt5opengl5-dev libqt5svg5-dev libglew-dev net-tools graphviz xterm qt5-default libvtk6-dev zlib1g-dev libjpeg-dev libwebp-dev libpng-dev libtiff5-dev libopenexr-dev libgdal-dev libtbb-dev libpng16-16:i386 libtbb2:i386 libjpeg62:i386 libtiff5:i386 libv4l-0:i386
```
<br>

### Configure GitHub :
  
  Install git
  ```
  sudo apt-get install git git-core git-gui git-doc gitg
  ```
  
  Follow [this guide](http://help.github.com/linux-set-up-git) to set up git (Attention: "Your Name here" means "Name Surname")

  Colorize git: 
  ```
  git config --global color.status auto
  ```
<br>


### Update and upgrade your pc and reboot.
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo reboot
```
<br>

### Install the SPQR Team RoboCup framework:
Clone the repository (need to have permissions on GitHub) 
```
mkdir RoboCup
cd RoboCup
git clone https://github.com/SPQRTeam/spqrnao2021.git
```


### Install OpenCV3.1
Dowload source of OpenCV:
 `$ wget https://github.com/opencv/opencv/archive/3.1.0.zip`

Unzip the files
 `$ unzip 3.1.0.zip`

Generate the make file
```
cd opencv-3.1.0
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DWITH_QT=ON -DWITH_OPENGL=ON -DFORCE_VTK=ON -DWITH_TBB=ON -DWITH_GDAL=ON -DWITH_XINE=ON -DWITH_CUDA=OFF ..
```

**NOTICE**: if you have trouble with _stdlib_ add this flag
```
-DENABLE_PRECOMPILED_HEADERS=OFF
```

Compile
```
make -j<num of cores of your cpu>
```

Run OpenCV install script 
```
sudo make install
``` 
and then
```
sudo ldconfig
```

#### Possible problems at this step

The following errors may happen for some users, but not others. *If you incur into one, please report it to us as soon as possible, so we can update this wiki with the proper error message.*

* **IMPORTANT FOR ANACONDA/MINICONDA USERS:** Either of them can mess with the installation process by generating seemingly unrelated errors *(e.g. an undefined reference to libtiff)*. The easiest way is to temporarily disable them by following this procedure: [(source)](https://github.com/colmap/colmap/issues/188#issuecomment-440665679)
  - Open your .bashrc: `$ nano ~/.bashrc`
  - Locate the line that adds <ana/mini>conda to your PATH. It may look like `export PATH="/home/<user>/anaconda3/bin:$PATH` for anaconda, and similarly for miniconda. If you can't find it in .bashrc, try your .profile as well.
  - Comment out that line *(add a `#` as the first character of that line)*.
  - *Open a new terminal window* and carry out the OpenCV installation procedure as above.
  - Un-comment that line in your .bashrc
* **If you get an error message related to ffmpeg:** Install ffmpeg with the command `sudo apt install ffmpeg`
* **If the compiler says some flag (one of which may be CODEC_FLAG_GLOBAL_HEADER) was not declared:** You may have to add the missing defines to the OpenCV code. Open the file `<opencv folder>/modules/videoio/src/cap_ffmpeg_impl.hpp` and add the folowing lines: [(source)](https://stackoverflow.com/a/47005401)
```c++
    #define AV_CODEC_FLAG_GLOBAL_HEADER (1 << 22)
    #define CODEC_FLAG_GLOBAL_HEADER AV_CODEC_FLAG_GLOBAL_HEADER
    #define AVFMT_RAWPICTURE 0x0020
```
* **If you get errors related to libasound:** Install the corresponding headers with the command `sudo apt install libasound2-dev`

### Compile the code 
#### Ubuntu 16 or Mint 18 users
Set Clang-6.0 before you compile: 
```
sudo apt-get install -y clang-6.0 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang++ clang++ /usr/bin/clang++-3.8 100 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang++ clang++ /usr/bin/clang++-6.0 1000 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang++ clang /usr/bin/clang-3.8 100 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang clang /usr/bin/clang-3.8 100 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/clang clang /usr/bin/clang-6.0 1000 
sudo update-alternatives --config clang 
sudo update-alternatives --config clang++
```
#### All users
To compile **(for all OS versions)**:
Compile the code (move to the `Make/Linux` folder of the repo)
```
cd RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/Make/Linux
make CONFIG=<Develop/Debug/Release>
```

### Install Python dependencies
Install the ssl library:
```
sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
```

Using a python package manager install the `twisted` package and the `service_identity` package (e.g. `pip install twisted service_identity`)

### Install NodeJS dependencies
* Install NodeJS
* Using npm install the `websocket` package (e.g. `npm install websocket`)

### Install MONA
* Clone the following repo `https://github.com/cs-au-dk/MONA`
* Follow the install instructions at [this page](https://github.com/cs-au-dk/MONA/blob/master/INSTALL)

HINT:
```
cd <MONA_DIR>
sudo make install-strips
```

NOTICE: you might need to install **flex**, **bison** and **byacc**: 
```
sudo apt-get install flex bison byacc
```
Then, go into the MONA directory and uninstall:
```
sudo make uninstall
sudo make clean
```
then rebuild:
```
sudo make install-strip
```


## Running

The network infrastructure is set to run on localhost. Make sure you're connected to a network anyway, even if not connected to the internet (to have the loopback work anyway)

### Run SimRobot
Move to `Develop/` folder
```
cd RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/Build/Linux/SimRobot/<Develop/Debug/Release>/
```

Run SimRobot
```
./SimRobot
```

Click on File->Open and then move to the `RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/Config/Scenes` folder and open the `1vs3Dummies.ros2` scene. This scene features one playing robot and 3 draggable inactive robots acting as obstacles.

### Run the python server
Move to `external_clients/` folder
```
cd RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/external_clients/
```

Run the python server 
```
python async_socket_NAO.py
```

### Run the NodeJS server
Move to `external_clients/web_interface` folder
```
cd RoboCup/master_thesis/spqrnao2021/external_clients/web_interface
```

Run the python server
```
node clientUDP.js
```

### Open the GUI in the browser
Open any browser and connect to 127.0.0.1:3000
